Get Unlimited
Get Unlimited
Home
>
Learning Path
>
Ace the JavaScript Coding Interview
SKILL PATH
Ace the JavaScript Coding Interview
JavaScript is a lightweight, high-level programming language that is event-driven and functional and can be either interpreted or just-in-time compiled. It is one of the core technologies of web development and allows us to use multiple frameworks. JavaScript continues to rise in popularity, but it also continues to evolve and support new functionality very rapidly. This Skill Path will take you through all that you need to know to crack your JavaScript interviews with confidence. You’ll cover everything from data structures to object-oriented design. You will also get to know the essential patterns behind popular coding interview questions. By the time you are done, your skills will be polished to ace the interview of any company.
5 Modules
185 hours
790 Lessons
1142 Playgrounds
402 Challenges
437 Code Snippets
1932 Illustrations
Learning Objectives
Brush up on data structures, algorithms, and important syntax.
Learn the interview question patterns that will help you answer any coding question.
Practice answering hundreds of real interview questions.
Learn object-oriented design concepts and patterns to analyze real-world design problems.
Path Content
Module 1
Big-O Notation
Get hands-on experience to make the correct algorithm and data structure decisions to manage space and time complexity.
1
Module 2
Data Structures
Solve commonly asked data structure questions in JavaScript coding interviews.
1
Module 3
Recursion
Brush up your skills on solving problems using recursion.
Module 4
Coding Interview Patterns
Learn essential coding patterns to answer problems and prepare for tech companies' interviews.
Module 5
Object Oriented Design
Brush up on your OOD skills by solving real-life system design problems.
What Our Learners Say
Your method is simple, straight to the point and I can practice with it everywhere, even from my phone, that's something I have never had in other learning platforms.
Felipe Matheus
Software Engineer
I highly recommend Educative. The courses are well organized and easy to understand.
Adina Ong
Senior Engineering Manager
I prefer Educative courses because they have a nice mix of text & images. I find that with full video courses, it can often be too easy to go into passive learning mode.
Clifford Fajardo
Senior Software Engineer
I prefer Educative courses because they have a nice mix of text & images. I find that with full video courses, it can often be too easy to go into passive learning mode.
Clifford Fajardo
Senior Software Engineer
What Our Learners Say
Your method is simple, straight to the point and I can practice with it everywhere, even from my phone, that's something I have never had in other learning platforms.
Felipe Matheus
Software Engineer
I highly recommend Educative. The courses are well organized and easy to understand.
Adina Ong
Senior Engineering Manager
I prefer Educative courses because they have a nice mix of text & images. I find that with full video courses, it can often be too easy to go into passive learning mode.
Clifford Fajardo
Senior Software Engineer
Learn in-demand tech skills in half the time
PRODUCTS
Mock Interview
New
Courses
Skill Paths
Projects
Assessments
Newsletter
Fenzo
TRENDING TOPICS
Learn to Code
Tech Interview Prep
Generative AI
Data Science
Machine Learning
GitHub Students Scholarship
Early Access Courses
Blind 75
Layoffs
Pricing
For Individuals
Try for Free
Gift a Subscription
CONTRIBUTE
Become an Author
Become an Affiliate
Refer a Friend
RESOURCES
Blog
Cheatsheets
Webinars
Answers
Guides
Compilers
ABOUT US
Our Team
Careers
Hiring
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
LEGAL
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Terms of Service
Business Terms of Service
Data Processing Agreement
INTERVIEW PREP COURSES
Grokking the Modern System Design Interview
Grokking the Product Architecture Design Interview
Grokking the Coding Interview Patterns
Machine Learning System Design
Tiktok Streamline Icon: https://streamlinehq.com
Copyright ©
2026
Educative, Inc. All rights reserved.