Get Unlimited
Get Unlimited
Home
>
Learning Path
>
Ace the C++ Coding Interview
SKILL PATH
Ace the C++ Coding Interview
C++ is a general purpose, low-level, objected-oriented language. C++ is widely used in various fields such as game development, virtual reality, automotive and avionics, financial systems, medical equipment, and even the space industry. The compatibility of C++ makes it a perfect language for developing operating systems, game engines, desktop and mobile applications, and high-performance computing systems. This Skill Path will take you through all that you need to know to crack your C++ interviews with confidence. You’ll cover everything from data structures to Object-oriented design. You will also get to know the essential patterns behind popular coding interview questions. By the time you’re done with this Skill Path, you’ll be ready to ace the interview of any company.
7 Modules
221 hours
974 Lessons
11 Quizzes
1210 Playgrounds
403 Challenges
477 Code Snippets
1845 Illustrations
Learning Objectives
Brush up on data structures, algorithms, and important syntax.
Learn about the interview question patterns that will help you answer any coding question.
Practice answering hundreds of real interview questions.
Learn object-oriented design concepts and patterns to analyze real-world design problems.
Be able to confidently answer multithreading and concurrency questions.
Path Content
Module 1
Big-O Notation
Learn to manage space and time complexity by practicing how to make the right algorithm and data structure decisions.
1
Module 2
Data Structures
Solve problems that are commonly asked in C++ coding interviews related to common data structures.
1
Module 3
Algorithms
Learn about commonly asked programming algorithms, such as greedy algorithms, the divide-and-conquer algorithm, and dynamic programming.
Module 4
Recursion
Brush up your skills at solving problems using recursion.
Module 5
Coding Interview Patterns
Learn essential coding patterns to answer problems and prepare for tech companies' interviews.
Module 6
Object-oriented Design
Brush up on your OOD skills by solving real-life system design problems.
Module 7
Modern C++ Concurrency
Learn multithreading and concurrency concepts with the help of some related interview problems.
What Our Learners Say
Your method is simple, straight to the point and I can practice with it everywhere, even from my phone, that's something I have never had in other learning platforms.
Felipe Matheus
Software Engineer
I highly recommend Educative. The courses are well organized and easy to understand.
Adina Ong
Senior Engineering Manager
I prefer Educative courses because they have a nice mix of text & images. I find that with full video courses, it can often be too easy to go into passive learning mode.
Clifford Fajardo
Senior Software Engineer
I prefer Educative courses because they have a nice mix of text & images. I find that with full video courses, it can often be too easy to go into passive learning mode.
Clifford Fajardo
Senior Software Engineer
What Our Learners Say
Your method is simple, straight to the point and I can practice with it everywhere, even from my phone, that's something I have never had in other learning platforms.
Felipe Matheus
Software Engineer
I highly recommend Educative. The courses are well organized and easy to understand.
Adina Ong
Senior Engineering Manager
I prefer Educative courses because they have a nice mix of text & images. I find that with full video courses, it can often be too easy to go into passive learning mode.
Clifford Fajardo
Senior Software Engineer
Learn in-demand tech skills in half the time
PRODUCTS
Mock Interview
New
Courses
Skill Paths
Projects
Assessments
Newsletter
Fenzo
TRENDING TOPICS
Learn to Code
Tech Interview Prep
Generative AI
Data Science
Machine Learning
GitHub Students Scholarship
Early Access Courses
Blind 75
Layoffs
Pricing
For Individuals
Try for Free
Gift a Subscription
CONTRIBUTE
Become an Author
Become an Affiliate
Refer a Friend
RESOURCES
Blog
Cheatsheets
Webinars
Answers
Guides
Compilers
ABOUT US
Our Team
Careers
Hiring
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
LEGAL
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Terms of Service
Business Terms of Service
Data Processing Agreement
INTERVIEW PREP COURSES
Grokking the Modern System Design Interview
Grokking the Product Architecture Design Interview
Grokking the Coding Interview Patterns
Machine Learning System Design
Tiktok Streamline Icon: https://streamlinehq.com
Copyright ©
2026
Educative, Inc. All rights reserved.