Here's why you should join the server.
Join Discord
What is it?
Discord is a chat application. The Epic Web Community on Discord is
                a community of people who want to make connections, share ideas,
                and use software to help make the world a better place.
Make connections and friends
We're better when we work together. Discord allows us to have
                meaningful and nuanced conversations about building software.
                If you want to ask questions or provide your own opinions, this
                discord community is for you. We'll celebrate your successes and
                lament your misfortunes and failures. This community is focused
                on software development primarily, but we're humans and we
                embrace that (we even have a channel on parenting!).
Share ideas
This community is a fantastic place to get and provide feedback
                on fun and interesting ideas. We're all motivated to use
                software to make the world better in a wide variety of ways.
                Got a project you've been working on? Want to discover
                facinating ways people are using software? This is the place to
                be.
Not sure what to expect from the discord?
Here are some features for you at a glance.
High quality people
Our onboarding process, enforced code of conduct, and fantastic moderators keep it a friendly place to be.
Learning clubs
Form study groups and learn better together.
Meetups
Discord-bot facilitated feature to plan virtual events (like streams) and connect with other devs.
Software Channels
Channels on popular topics like frontend, backend, career, and more.
Life Channels
We're not robots. We're people. And we have kids, pets, and money. Channels for those and more.
Jobs channel
Looking for work or an engineer? You wouldn't be the first to start an employment relationship here.
EpicReact.dev Channels
There's a channel for each of the workshops in EpicReact.dev so you can get/give a hand when you get stuck.
TestingJavaScript.com Channels
Leveling up your testing experience? Sweet! Get and give help in these channels.
Team Channels
Sign up for an account on kentcdodds.com and connect your discord account to get access to the exclusive team channels.
Set up your own learning club.
KCD Learning Clubs are like study groups you put together yourself.
Having a group of people with the same challenges will help you
                learn faster. The discord bot can help you find them.
When we learn together, we learn better, and that's the idea.
Research has shown that learning is more effective when you have
                a group of people to hold you accountable. It's also more fun
                and less frustrating when you can help each other.
You can choose anything as your learning club topic.
A learning club can be about anything. All that's really
                required is some sort of curriculum or schedule to keep everyone
                focused on the same goal. So you can definitely choose one of
                my courses, but you could also choose something completely
                unrelated to software. The bot doesn't care and nobody's had
                trouble filling their learning club with interested members yet!
Develop friendships with other nice learners in the community.
The Epic Web Community on Discord is full of friendly people. When
                you put together a learning club here, in addition to learning
                better, you'll develop new friendships.
You have access to me (Kent) during weekly office hours.
By joining the Epic Web Community on Discord, you can ask questions
                that I'll answer during office hours. Often these questions come
                from discussions you and your fellow learners have during your
                learning club meetings. So if you all get stuck on the same
                thing, I'm there to help you get unstuck.
Don't just take my word for it.
What
others
have to say
Kent’s Discord community is filled with incredible people that are eager to learn and to help others. I learn so much everyday and I was also able to help many others at the best of my capacity there.
Ricardo Busquet
Software Engineer @ Carta
I was surprised of how Epic Web community is so friendly and supportive. I have had some troubles with testing library and discovered Epic Web discord channel and a lot of people there was ready to help. Kent has build an amazing community in which members loves sharing a knowledge!
Azizbek Jonibekov
Software Engineer at
Epic Web Discord Community is the best community out there. When I first joined the server I was amazed by the environment that I was in! Curated channels, great moderation, and great people to help you all the time. It made me feel like home <3
Ashwin Khode
Student
Here's a quick look at all categories.
Click on any category to get more info.
01
.
Welcome
A place to introduce yourself, read the rules, talk to the bot, and get tips about the server
02
.
KCD
All the stuff I'm up to goes here. You might consider adding special notification settings to the announcements channel so you don't miss anything important.
03
.
Epic Web Conf
This is where we discuss stuff going on with Epic Web Conference!
04
.
Epic Stack
Talk with others who are buildings applications using the Epic Stack.
05
.
Tech
Need to talk software? That's what this category is for. We've got your whole tech stack covered here (and if we're missing anything, that's what "general" is for 😅). And you've got career related topics here too.
06
.
Life
We're not automatons "turning coffee into code" 🙄. We're humans with lives, families, pets, preferences, money decisions, and joys. So we've got a channel to talk about that stuff.
07
.
Courses
Exclusive channels for folks going through the Epic Web Courses. Ask and answer questions, share your progress, and get help from others.
08
.
Clubs
Here's where you can coordinate setting up a new KCD Learning Club. Club captains also get access to a special channel for captains to talk about how to make the most of the experience for everyone.
Life is better with friends. Find them on discord.
Click the button below and join the community. Let's get
                better together.
Join Discord
Are you ready to level up?
Checkout some of my courses
See all courses
AI development course
Epic AI
Learn to build AI-powered applications.
Visit course
Full stack course
Epic Web
Become a full stack web dev.
Visit course
React course
Epic React
The most comprehensive guide for pros.
Visit course
Testing course
Testing JavaScript
Learn smart, efficient testing methods.
Visit course