Resume Worded
SCORE MY RESUME - FREE ATS RESUME SCAN
How good is your resume?
Find out instantly. Upload your resume and our free resume scanner will evaluate it against key criteria
					                    		hiring managers and applicant tracking systems (ATS) look for. Get actionable feedback on how to improve your resume's success rate.
...
Clear
Drop your resume here or
choose a file.
English resumes in PDF or DOCX only. Max 2MB file size.
100% privacy
We're committed to your privacy. Your resume will be scanned securely to give you confidential feedback instantly. Your resume is completely private to you and can be deleted at any time.
Trusted by over
one million
professionals globally.
Excellent
Rated
4.9 out of 5
based on 1000+ reviews on
LEARN MORE
↓
Our resume scanner tests whether your resume is ATS compliant.
Get a free ATS resume scan, powered by Artifical Intelligence
Companies often receive hundreds of resumes for
									      	every job posting they put out. They and their hiring managers 
									      	don't have the time to go through each resume individually, so they 
									      	use software, often called Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS), to filter
									      	through all the resumes they receive.
You need to make sure your resume is read correctly by these ATS and resume 
									      	screening software. If it is not, your resume could get
									      	instantly rejected by these systems and never make its way to 
									      	a recruiter or hiring manager.
Our resume scanner evaluates whether your resume will be read correctly by ATS, i.e. if it is ATS compliant.
									      	In addition, it also gives you detailed feedback on key criteria recruiters
									      	and hiring managers look for, for free.
Start the ATS resume test
»
How do I make sure my resume is ATS-compliant?
Here are some guidelines you should follow to ensure your resume gets correctly scanned by all applicant tracking systems.
Use standard section titles
: Label your work experience and education sections with conventional section titles. For example, use "Professional Experience" instead of "My career in a nutshell".
Use standard fonts
: Some newer fonts convert letters to special characters which often get scanned incorrectly by ATS. Where possible, stick to a standard font (Garamond, Arial, Calibri) where possible.
Single-column layouts
: Modern ATS are better at scanning multi-column layout but there are several ATS that fail at reading multi-column resumes in the way you'd expect it to.
No tables
: Tables rarely get parsed correctly. Use tabs and right/left aligns to structure your resume instead.
No scanned documents, pictures or diagrams
: Your resume's text must be highlightable and readable. Avoid using images or diagrams in your resume - this includes pie charts and graphs too!
Find out if your resume passes the ATS resume test
💡
Tip: Score My Resume was built with all applicant tracking systems in mind and acts as a powerful ATS resume test. If it is scanned correctly by our platform,
													you can be confident it will also be processed correctly by all ATS.
Get your free ATS resume scan
»
Want to use this template? Download it here
»
An example of an ATS friendly resume template that is readable by ATS and resume scanners
Here are the guidelines we outlined above in practice.
Notice the clean single-column design and how fancy formatting like tables, diagrams and graphs have been
									      	stripped out. ATS resume scanners either ignore these or read them incorrectly. You want to make sure
									      	you stick to text and a standard font with minimal use of special characters.
Similarly, notice how this resume also uses standard section titles, such as "Experience" and 
									      	"Education". Resume scanners specifically look out for these core sections and you want to make sure 
									      	they're easy to find.
Bonus tip: Use reverse chronological order for your dates. Many applicant tracking systems try to find your 
									      	most recent work experience and assumes your resume is in reverse chronological order (i.e. most recent first).
Get an ATS resume test
»
The importance of resume keywords
If you're reading until this point, you've understood how to make your resume readable and scanned correctly 
									      	by applicant tracking systems, or ATS. This is a great start - well done!
However, you're not done yet. You need to now make sure these resume scanners actually 
									      	rank your resume highly. Let's back up for a bit.
If you recall at the start of this page, we discussed that companies use ATS to
filter
down the number of applicants they receive. They filter resumes by looking for keywords that match the job description.
									      	Fortunately for you, our resume keyword scanner helps you identify
									      	the right keywords to include on your resume. This tool helps you test your resume against a specific job description, 
									      	enabling you to optimize for that posting (and of course, dramatically increase your success rate).
Target Your Resume
Our ATS resume keyword scanner evaluates your resume against 20+ tests.
What tests does our ATS resume scanner run?
We'll scan your resume in 30 seconds and evaluate it against a range of criteria that recruiters
									      	and hiring managers consider important.
Our resume test goes even deeper than an ATS scan, and gives you feedback on many
									      	other areas of your resume such as impact, soft skills and brevity. This enables you to identify gaps on your resume so you can fix them.
Test your resume through an ATS
»
Unlimited ATS resume scans
You get several free uploads to our resume scanner.
									      	If you have different versions of your resumes (and you should, especially if you are applying to 
									      	different industries!), you can test each of your resumes through our resume scanner.
This allows you to evaluate all versions of your resume for not only ATS friendliness,
									      	but also other key criteria (like impact, hard skills and core competencies), to make sure you get as many interviews as possible.
To get started, upload your resume in PDF. If you're wondering if PDFs can be read by ATS, the answer
									      	is yes! Unless specified, always use PDF. All ATS can read them perfectly as long as you stick to the guidelines we've outlined above - i.e. ensure your resume is not a scan, is not an image and uses standard formatting (it should ideally have been exported by Google Docs or Microsoft Word).
Get a free ATS resume scan
»
Free ATS resume scan: You can scan your resume as many times as you'd like using our ATS resume scanning technology
An effective free resume scanner
As of 2026, our free resume scanner has supported 
									      	5 million job seekers globally. It's an effective platform to determine:
Whether you have a scannable resume
: Find out if your resume will be scanned correctly by an applicant tracking system. Are your achievements read correctly? Find out instantly.
Your ATS readability
: Check that your work experience and skills are identified correctly. Note that if your work experience isn't detected correctly, an ATS may auto-flag you as unemployed — you want to avoid this since you might automatically get rejected.
How well your resume matches the job description
: You will be given a resume score, which will help you understand if your resume covers all the right keywords and recruiter checks.
You'll also get access to our advanced AI resume writer, which will enhance your resume's existing content and turn it into professional content you can use on your resume. You'll never have to ever ask, "Is my resume good enough?". You'll know it is.
Scan your resume
»
The most complete resume toolkit
Targeted Resume
Try our resume keyword scanner which scans both your resume and the job description you're applying to (like an ATS would).
LinkedIn Review
Get actionable insights on how to improve your LinkedIn profile by using our LinkedIn profile checker.
ATS Resume Templates
Download ATS friendly resume templates that are perfectly readable and compatible with all ATS.
Get your free ATS resume scan in 30 seconds
Get expert feedback on your resume, instantly
Get actionable steps to revamp your resume and land more interviews using our free AI-powered tool.
Optimize your resume for resume screeners
In 2026, your resume will almost certainly pass through an automated screener before it reaches a hiring manager. Find out how strong your resume is at getting past this ATS software.
Create a free account to continue
(Not you?)
- or -
Sign up with Email
Have an account? Sign in
Sign up
E-mail
Please enter a valid email address
This email address hasn't been signed up yet, or it has already been signed up with Facebook or Google login.
Password
Show
Your password needs to be between 6 and 50 characters long, and
must contain at least 1 letter and 1 number.
It looks like your password is incorrect.
Don't remember your password?
Log in with a code
Log in with a code instead
The code you entered is incorrect or has expired. Please request a new code.
Resend code
Back to password login
Forgot your password?
Name
Please enter your name correctly
E-mail
Remember to use a real email address that you have access to. You will need to confirm your email address before you get access to our features, so please enter it correctly.
Please enter a valid email address, or another email address to sign up. We unfortunately can't accept that email domain right now.
This email address has already been taken, or you've already signed up via Google or Facebook login.
We currently are experiencing a very high server load so Email signup is currently disabled for the next 24 hours. Please sign up with Google or Facebook to continue! We apologize for the inconvenience!
Password
Show
Your password needs to be between 6 and 50 characters long, and
must contain at least 1 letter and 1 number.
By continuing, you agree to our
Terms and Conditions
and
Privacy Policy
.
Lost your password? Please enter the email address you used when you signed up. We'll send you a link to create a new password.
E-mail
This email address either hasn't been signed up yet, or you signed up with Facebook or Google.
This email address doesn't look valid.
Back to log-in
Close