Resume Worded
TARGETED RESUME - FREE ATS CHECKER
Target your resume to a job, instantly
Our free AI tool shows you the important skills your resume is missing
. 
					                    		Quickly tailor your resume for any job, beat the applicant tracking systems (ATS), and increase your chances of getting interviews.
Target your resume
»
See preview
Trusted by over
one million
professionals globally.
Excellent
Rated
4.9 out of 5
based on 1000+ reviews on
How to write a targeted resume
The importance of
keywords
on your resume
Recruiters and hiring managers spend an average of six seconds on each resume. Let's face it - they don't
read
your resume. They
skim
it quickly for keywords to get a sense of if you're a good fit or not.
For example, if you're applying for a
Customer Service
job that needs some experience, recruiters are going to make sure 
				                    			you have some customer service experience by quickly scanning your resume for the keywords 'customer service' or 'customer support'.
If your resume contains the keywords
				                    		   that were in the job description, it suggests you have the skills the job requires and that it is a well targeted resume.
Match your resume to a job
»
How to get past
Applicant Tracking Systems
(ATS)
Most companies use resume screening software, or Applicant Tracking Systems (ATS), to quickly filter and rank the thousands of applicants that apply to each job. 
		                    		   These software rank your resume based on its
relevancy
to the job description.
They do this by scanning your resume for specific skills and keywords. If your resume doesn't have critical keywords (like 'customer support' in the example above), 
		                    		   your resume will be instantly rejected.
To ensure your resume gets past ATS, you need to include the right keywords employers are looking for. 
		                    		   Here's where Targeted Resume comes in handy - it is a resume keyword scanner that analyzes your resume's keywords
		                    		   and ensures you have covered the most important keywords.
After you find the missing skills, use the tool's AI features which will show you how to write professional lines 
		                    		   and bullet points that contain the skills your resume is missing.
And it's all for free.
Start your free ATS scan
»
Applicant Tracking Systems are used by employers to filter out resumes that do not have the right keywords, experience or skills
Compare your resume to a job posting
With Targeted Resume, you can instantly check if your resume contains all the right skills and keywords.
				                    				It works by comparing your resume to the job description and finding important keywords 
				                    				you missed out from your resume.
Keep in mind that no two jobs are exactly the same, even if they have the same job title. Some jobs might
				                    				prioritize specific skills over others. This is where Targeted Resume is especially useful - it allows you 
				                    				to compare your resume to
as many job descriptions as you apply to
.
When you analyze a job posting, the tool calculates a
comparison score
to help you understand if your
				                    				resume is well-matched to the job posting. In the tool, we refer to this as the "Relevancy Score."
A score lower than 80 suggests that your resume is missing important skills 
				                    				from the job posting and is not matched to the job you are applying to.
Compare your resume to a job posting
»
Proven to get
more
interviews. For free.
⚙
Get past ATS robots
Instantly find out the resume or CV keywords and hard skills companies are
		                    			   looking for. We'll tell you what keywords 
		                    			   ATS software are looking for, as well as which ones your resume is missing.
🔍
Tailor your resume in minutes
Customizing your resume for every job has always been a tedious, time consuming exercise. Until now.
With our free ATS scanner and matcher, you'll instantly know what skills your resume is missing.
📋
Compare your resume to the job description
Most people don't even look closely at the job description they apply to, submit the same resume, 
		                    				and wonder why they don't get interviews. 
		                    				We'll tell you exactly what the job is looking for, including the soft skills, as well 
		                    				as use AI to give you lines you can copy-and-paste into your resume.
Start targeting your resume
»
With Targeted Resume, you can create different resumes and match them to each job posting
How do you target your resume to a job description?
Before Targeted Resume, you'd have to spend hours comparing each job description to your resume to 
		                    			find the right keywords you need to include and then 
		                    			look for the ones your resume is missing.
With our resume keyword scanner, you can now tailor your resume to a job description in less than 30 seconds.
		                    			Simply add in the job description you're applying to and upload your resume, and our algorithms will 
		                    			tell you exactly what important keywords your resume is missing. These keywords are also the ones Applicant Tracking Systems 
		                    			are specifically searching for on your resume.
Targeted Resume and Job Description Matching
»
Want more? Discover our related resources.
Rate My Resume
Use our free resume rater to professionally scan your resume and see how it compares to top-rated resumes in your field. Then, receive instant feedback on how to improve your rating to help you land your next interview.
Resume Keyword Scanner
Optimize your resume's keywords instantly. This tool will scan your resume and a job description. Then, it will tell you what which keywords your resume is missing.
Word Resume Templates
Want a free Word resume template that is ATS-friendly and is approved by hiring managers? Download one out of our 300+ curated Word templates.
Find out what your resume is missing
Get past resume screeners
Find out what keywords recruiters search for. These keywords will help you beat resume screeners (i.e. the Applicant Tracking System).
Get a resume relevancy score
Find out how effective your resume
really
is. You'll get a confidential resume review which will tell you how recruiters see your resume.
Create a free account to continue
(Not you?)
- or -
Sign up with Email
Have an account? Sign in
Sign up
E-mail
Please enter a valid email address
This email address hasn't been signed up yet, or it has already been signed up with Facebook or Google login.
Password
Show
Your password needs to be between 6 and 50 characters long, and
must contain at least 1 letter and 1 number.
It looks like your password is incorrect.
Don't remember your password?
Log in with a code
Log in with a code instead
The code you entered is incorrect or has expired. Please request a new code.
Resend code
Back to password login
Forgot your password?
Name
Please enter your name correctly
E-mail
Remember to use a real email address that you have access to. You will need to confirm your email address before you get access to our features, so please enter it correctly.
Please enter a valid email address, or another email address to sign up. We unfortunately can't accept that email domain right now.
This email address has already been taken, or you've already signed up via Google or Facebook login.
We currently are experiencing a very high server load so Email signup is currently disabled for the next 24 hours. Please sign up with Google or Facebook to continue! We apologize for the inconvenience!
Password
Show
Your password needs to be between 6 and 50 characters long, and
must contain at least 1 letter and 1 number.
By continuing, you agree to our
Terms and Conditions
and
Privacy Policy
.
Lost your password? Please enter the email address you used when you signed up. We'll send you a link to create a new password.
E-mail
This email address either hasn't been signed up yet, or you signed up with Facebook or Google.
This email address doesn't look valid.
Back to log-in
Close