Skip to content
What’s new?
Since the 1990s, the web has been a publishing place for human-readable documents. Documents published on the web are in HTML. HTML has a little bit of…
Read more
“Progress on the Block Protocol”
You’ve probably seen web editors based on the idea of blocks. I’m typing this in WordPress, which has a little + button that brings up a long…
Read more
“Making the web better. With blocks!”
The other day I was talking to a young developer working on a code base with tons of COM code, and I told him that even before…
Read more
“Kinda a big announcement”
Sometimes simulating complex systems is the best way to understand them.
Read more
“HASH: a free, online platform for modeling the world”
Reading lists
Over the last 16 years I’ve written
1114 articles
on this site about software development, management, business, and the Internet. To make it easy to find the best ones, here are some reading lists, sorted by topic.
Top 10
Things You Should Never Do, Part I
Strategy Letter I: Ben and Jerry’s vs. Amazon
The Joel Test: 12 Steps to Better Code
Fire And Motion
The Iceberg Secret, Revealed
The Law of Leaky Abstractions
The Absolute Minimum Every Software Developer Absolutely, Positively Must Know About Unicode and Character Sets (No Excuses!)
How Microsoft Lost the API War
The Perils of JavaSchools
The Development Abstraction Layer
Stack Overflow
stackoverflow.com
Stack Overflow Launches
Stack Overflow is a Wiki
Stack Overflow Live!
Talk about StackOverflow
Server Fault now in public beta
Get a job
Upgrade your career
Programmer search engine
Stack stats
Raising money for StackOverflow
Facebook / LinkedIn importers
Stack Exchange 2.0
Sites for experts
News
Area 51 is now in beta
Web Applications Stack Exchange now in beta
A new WordPress Stack Exchange
Fork it!
New, PNG-based Stack Overflow flair
Stack Exchange for Jewish Life and Learning
The Wikipedia of Long Tail Programming Questions
Stack Overflow 2010 recap
Careers 2.0 (by Stack Overflow)
Stack Overflow (the company) is now Stack Exchange
Stack Exchange Raises $40m
The Stack Overflow Age
Announcing Stack Overflow for Teams
The next CEO of Stack Overflow
New developer
NDAs and Contracts That You Should Never Sign
Getting Things Done When You’re Only a Grunt
The Absolute Minimum Every Software Developer Absolutely, Positively Must Know About Unicode and Character Sets (No Excuses!)
Getting Your Résumé Read
Mike Gunderloy’s Coder to Developer
Advice for Computer Science College Students
The Perils of JavaSchools
Talk at Yale: Part 1 of 3
Talk at Yale: Part 2 of 3
Talk at Yale: Part 3 of 3
Exploding Offer Season
The Duct Tape Programmer
Developers’ side projects
Rock star developer
The Joel Test: 12 Steps to Better Code
Painless Bug Tracking
Daily Builds Are Your Friend
Don’t Let Architecture Astronauts Scare You
Hard-assed Bug Fixin’
A Hard Drill Makes an Easy Battle
Back to Basics
Five Worlds
The Law of Leaky Abstractions
Craftsmanship
Biculturalism
Foreword to Painless Project Management with FogBugz, by Mike Gunderloy
Making Wrong Code Look Wrong
Can Your Programming Language Do This?
Why are the Microsoft Office file formats so complicated? (And some workarounds)
Distributed Version Control is here to stay, baby
Tech lead
Two Stories
Human Task Switches Considered Harmful
Lord Palmerston on Programming
The Development Abstraction Layer
Three Management Methods (Introduction)
The Command and Control Management Method
The Econ 101 Management Method
The Identity Management Method
Evidence Based Scheduling
CEO
Incentive Pay Considered Harmful
Things You Should Never Do, Part I
Where do These People Get Their (Unoriginal) Ideas?
Top Five (Wrong) Reasons You Don’t Have Testers
Strategy Letter I: Ben and Jerry’s vs. Amazon
Strategy Letter II: Chicken and Egg Problems
Strategy Letter III: Let Me Go Back!
Wasting Money on Cats
Big Macs vs. The Naked Chef
Strategy Letter IV: Bloatware and the 80/20 Myth
Good Software Takes Ten Years. Get Used To it.
In Defense of Not-Invented-Here Syndrome
Fire And Motion
Strategy Letter V
Platforms
Rick Chapman is In Search of Stupidity
How Microsoft Lost the API War
Seven steps to remarkable customer service
Strategy Letter VI
Martian Headsets
Figuring out what your company is all about
Why testers?
Startup founder
Fixing Venture Capital
Micro-ISV: From Vision to Reality
Foreword to “Eric Sink on the Business of Software”
My First BillG Review
Architecture astronauts take over
The eternal optimism of the Clear mind
Software designer
Controlling Your Environment Makes You Happy
Figuring Out What They Expected
Choices
Affordances and Metaphors
Consistency and Other Hobgoblins
Designing for People Who Have Better Things To Do With Their Lives
Designing for People Who Have Better Things To Do With Their Lives, Part Two
Designing for People Who Have Better Things To Do With Their Lives, Part Three
The Process of Designing a Product
Painless Functional Specifications – Part 1: Why Bother?
Painless Functional Specifications – Part 2: What’s a Spec?
Painless Functional Specifications – Part 3: But… How?
Painless Functional Specifications – Part 4: Tips
Humane Programming
The Iceberg Secret, Revealed
Nothing is as Simple as it Seems
Building Communities with Software
It’s Not Just Usability
The Project Aardvark Spec
Introduction to Great Design (Second Draft, In Progress)
Great Design: What is Design? (First Draft)
What Makes It Great? (First Draft)
Amazing X-Ray Glasses from Sprint!
Choices = Headaches
Simplicity
Elegance
The Big Picture
Font smoothing, anti-aliasing, and sub-pixel rendering
Product manager
How Many Lies Can You Find In One Direct Mail Piece?
Mouth Wide Shut
Camels and Rubber Duckies
How to demo software
Where there’s muck, there’s brass
Recruiter
Whaddaya Mean, You Can’t Find Programmers?
Hitting the High Notes
Finding Great Developers
A Field Guide to Developers
Sorting Resumes
The Phone Screen
The Guerrilla Guide to Interviewing (version 3.0)
Programmer search engine
Fog Creek Software
There’s a software company in New York City dedicated to doing things the right way and proving that it can be done profitably and successfully.
Fog Creek Software.
Here’s the story:
More on Sabbaticals…
Command and Conquer and the Herd of Coconuts
Spring in Cambridge
What is the Work of Dogs in this Country?
Working on CityDesk, Part One
Working on CityDesk, Part Two
Working on CityDesk, Part Three
Working on CityDesk, Part Four
Working on CityDesk, Part Five
Rub a dub dub
New Server at Peer 1 Network
Finding an Office in New York City
Bionic Office
Colo Expansion Version 2.0
The Road to FogBugz 4.0: Part I
The Road to FogBugz 4.0: Part II
The Road to FogBugz 4.0: Part III
The Road to FogBugz 4.0: Part IV
The Road to FogBugz 4.0: Part V
Project Aardvark Midterm Report
How to Ship Anything
FogBugz 4½ and Subjective Well-Being
Copilot 2.0 ships!
A game of inches
Five whys
The new Fog Creek office
New, faster Copilot
Fruity treats, customization, and supersonics: FogBugz 7 is here
How Trello is different
Introducing HyperDev
Anil Dash is the new CEO of Fog Creek Software