Home
Courses
Grokking the Behavioral Interview
4.6
Beginner
5h
Updated 1 month ago
Grokking the Behavioral Interview
The ultimate guide to behavioral interviews. Developed by FAANG engineers. Use real-world questions, video recording, and structured strategies to get interview-ready in just a few hours.
Overview
Content
Reviews
Many times, it’s not your technical competency that holds you back from landing your dream job, it’s how you perform on the behavioral interview.

Whether you’re a software engineer, product manager, or engineering manager, this course will give you the tools to thoroughly prepare for behavioral and cultural questions. But beyond even technical roles, this would be useful for anyone, in any profession.

As you progress, you'll be able to use Educative's new video recording widget to record yourself answering questions and assess your performance.  By the time you’ve completed the course, you'll be able to answer any behavioral question that comes your way - with confidence.
Many times, it’s not your technical competency that holds you back from landing your dream job, it’s how you perform on the beha...
Show More
TAKEAWAY SKILLS
Management
Prepare for Interview
Behavioral Interview
Learning Roadmap
36
Lessons
5
Quizzes
Expand All
1
.
Why Prepare?
Why Prepare?
Get familiar with the importance of preparation, authenticity, professionalism, and behavioral interview goals.
Why Prepare?
Authenticity
Everyone is an Interviewer
The Purpose of Behavioral Interviews
2
.
Preparing/Homework
Preparing/Homework
Discover the logic behind effective interview prep, organization research, and cultural analysis.
Doing your Homework
Exercise: List Organization Values
Exercise: Create a List of Experiences
The STAR Technique
Exercise: STAR Technique
Borrowing from other disciplines
Be a Cultural Anthropologist
3
.
Patterns for Behavioral Questions
Patterns for Behavioral Questions
12
Lessons
12
Lessons
Explore behavioral interview strategies, answer personal experience questions, handle hypotheticals, and ask insightful organizational questions.
4
.
Interview Etiquette
Interview Etiquette
11
Lessons
11
Lessons
Enhance your skills in effective interview etiquette, communication, and professional interactions.
5
.
Conclusion and Quizzes!
Conclusion and Quizzes!
2
Lessons
2
Lessons
Take a closer look at practicing responses, self-reflection, authenticity, and meet key contributors.
Certificate of Completion
Showcase your accomplishment by sharing your certificate of completion.
Claim Certificate
Complete more lessons to unlock your certificate
Author Name
Grokking the Behavioral Interview
Developed by MAANG Engineers
Every Educative lesson is designed by a team of ex-MAANG software engineers and PhD computer science educators, and developed in consultation with developers and data scientists working at Meta, Google, and more. Our mission is to get you hands-on with the necessary skills to stay ahead in a constantly changing industry. No video, no fluff. Just interactive, project-based learning with personalized feedback that adapts to your goals and experience.
Trusted by
2.9
million
developers working at
companies
"This was a great course and I learned so much. Recording myself was a really effective way to recognize habits I had no clue I had!"
Erica Thompson
Web Engineer II @ HashiCorp
"I appreciated how simple and easy to understand the explanations were. The content was incredibly valuable, and I can already see how it will benefit me in software engineering behavioral interviews."
Malek Kamel
Software Engineer @ Digybite
"These are high-quality courses. Trust me the price is worth it for the content quality. Educative came at the right time in my career. I'm understanding topics better than with any book or online video tutorial I've done. Truly made for developers. Thanks"
Anthony Walker
@_webarchitect_
Hands-on Learning
Powered by AI
See how Educative uses AI to make your learning more immersive than ever before.
Personalized Interview Prep
Skip the LeetCode grind with a custom roadmap that adapts to your goals. Hands-on practice for Coding Interviews, System Design, and more.
Get Your Free Roadmap
Mock Interviews
Test your skills in a simulated interview setting. Receive personalized feedback based on your performance. Available for Coding Interviews, System Design, and more.
Explore Mock Interviews
AI Prompt
Build prompt engineering skills. Practice implementing AI-informed solutions.
Code Feedback
Evaluate and debug your code with the click of a button. Get real-time feedback on test cases, including time and space complexity of your solutions.
Explain with AI
Select any text within any Educative course, and get an instant explanation — without ever leaving your browser.
AI Code Mentor
AI Code Mentor helps you quickly identify errors in your code, learn from your mistakes, and nudge you in the right direction — just like a 1:1 tutor!
Free Resources
Learn in-demand tech skills in half the time
PRODUCTS
Mock Interview
New
Courses
Cloud Labs
Skill Paths
Projects
Assessments
Newsletter
Fenzo
TRENDING TOPICS
Learn to Code
Tech Interview Prep
Generative AI
Data Science
Machine Learning
GitHub Students Scholarship
Early Access Courses
Blind 75
Layoffs
Pricing
For Individuals
Try for Free
Gift a Subscription
For Students
CONTRIBUTE
Become an Author
Become an Affiliate
Refer a Friend
RESOURCES
Blog
Cheatsheets
Webinars
Answers
Guides
Compilers
ABOUT US
Our Team
Careers
Hiring
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
LEGAL
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Terms of Service
Business Terms of Service
Data & Privacy
Data Processing Agreement
INTERVIEW PREP COURSES
Grokking the Modern System Design Interview
Grokking the Product Architecture Design Interview
Grokking the Coding Interview Patterns
Machine Learning System Design
Tiktok Streamline Icon: https://streamlinehq.com
Copyright ©
2026
Educative, Inc. All rights reserved.