Home
Courses
Grokking Comp Negotiation in Tech
4.5
Beginner
1h 30min
Grokking Comp Negotiation in Tech
Gain insights into strategies to maximize tech industry compensation. Discover negotiation techniques for better base salary, equity grants, and bonuses, ensuring you never leave money on the table.
Overview
Content
Reviews
In this course, you will learn the strategies to maximize your total compensation (base salary, equity grants, bonuses) while working in the tech industry. Whether you plan to change jobs or boost your earnings while staying in your current job, this course will guide you through the process.

Compensation is typically not a function of one’s ability, but how well you negotiate your deal. That’s why the material in this course will teach you how to prepare and position yourself for the best possible outcomes from your comp negotiations, so you never leave money on the table.
In this course, you will learn the strategies to maximize your total compensation (base salary, equity grants, bonuses) while wo...
Show More
Learning Roadmap
24
Lessons
Expand All
Why Negotiate?
Developing Market Awareness
Surviving Recruiters
Email to the Rescue
Dodge the Ball
Spill the Beans
Fringe Benefits
Nailing Informationals
All About Timing
Basics of Negotiation
What’s on the Table?
Beggars Can’t Be Choosers
Showdown with Multiple Offers
Defense with Current Compensation
Single Suitor
Just Ask
Climbing the Ladder
Sign-on Bonuses
Retention Bonuses & Refresher RSUs
Buying Time
Undo (CMD + Z)
Bluffs, Lies, and Grey Areas
Startups
Conclusion
Certificate of Completion
Showcase your accomplishment by sharing your certificate of completion.
Claim Certificate
Complete more lessons to unlock your certificate
Author Name
Grokking Comp Negotiation in
Tech
Course Author:
LighthouseMentors
Developed by MAANG Engineers
Every Educative lesson is designed by a team of ex-MAANG software engineers and PhD computer science educators, and developed in consultation with developers and data scientists working at Meta, Google, and more. Our mission is to get you hands-on with the necessary skills to stay ahead in a constantly changing industry. No video, no fluff. Just interactive, project-based learning with personalized feedback that adapts to your goals and experience.
Trusted by
2.9
million
developers working at
companies
"These are high-quality courses. Trust me the price is worth it for the content quality. Educative came at the right time in my career. I'm understanding topics better than with any book or online video tutorial I've done. Truly made for developers. Thanks"
Anthony Walker
@_webarchitect_
"Just finished my first full #ML course: Machine learning for Software Engineers from Educative, Inc.  ... Highly recommend!"
Evan Dunbar
ML Engineer
"You guys are the gold standard of crash-courses... Narrow enough that it doesn't need years of study or a full blown book to get the gist, but broad enough that an afternoon of Googling doesn't cut it."
Software Developer
Carlos Matias La Borde
"I spend my days and nights on Educative. It is indispensable. It is such a unique and reader-friendly site"
Souvik Kundu
Front-end Developer
"Your courses are simply awesome, the depth they go into and the breadth of coverage is so good that I don't have to refer to 10 different websites looking for interview topics and content."
Vinay Krishnaiah
Software Developer
Hands-on Learning
Powered by AI
See how Educative uses AI to make your learning more immersive than ever before.
Personalized Interview Prep
Skip the LeetCode grind with a custom roadmap that adapts to your goals. Hands-on practice for Coding Interviews, System Design, and more.
Get Your Free Roadmap
Mock Interviews
Test your skills in a simulated interview setting. Receive personalized feedback based on your performance. Available for Coding Interviews, System Design, and more.
Explore Mock Interviews
AI Prompt
Build prompt engineering skills. Practice implementing AI-informed solutions.
Code Feedback
Evaluate and debug your code with the click of a button. Get real-time feedback on test cases, including time and space complexity of your solutions.
Explain with AI
Select any text within any Educative course, and get an instant explanation — without ever leaving your browser.
AI Code Mentor
AI Code Mentor helps you quickly identify errors in your code, learn from your mistakes, and nudge you in the right direction — just like a 1:1 tutor!
Free Resources
Learn in-demand tech skills in half the time
PRODUCTS
Mock Interview
New
Courses
Cloud Labs
Skill Paths
Projects
Assessments
Newsletter
Fenzo
TRENDING TOPICS
Learn to Code
Tech Interview Prep
Generative AI
Data Science
Machine Learning
GitHub Students Scholarship
Early Access Courses
Blind 75
Layoffs
Pricing
For Individuals
Try for Free
Gift a Subscription
For Students
CONTRIBUTE
Become an Author
Become an Affiliate
Refer a Friend
RESOURCES
Blog
Cheatsheets
Webinars
Answers
Guides
Compilers
ABOUT US
Our Team
Careers
Hiring
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
LEGAL
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Terms of Service
Business Terms of Service
Data & Privacy
Data Processing Agreement
INTERVIEW PREP COURSES
Grokking the Modern System Design Interview
Grokking the Product Architecture Design Interview
Grokking the Coding Interview Patterns
Machine Learning System Design
Tiktok Streamline Icon: https://streamlinehq.com
Copyright ©
2026
Educative, Inc. All rights reserved.