As of July 2024, all new Pramp sessions are hosted on Exponent Practice. It's still free and even better.
Try it now
Interviewing: the most
profitable skill you can learn
Don't miss out on a great job opportunity
Practice live interviews with peers
Start Practicing for Free!
Join thousands of professionals who already use Exponent Practice to ace their job interviews
Filipe Gonçalves
offers from:
Google
Microsoft
Pramp definitely played a role in my performance. Nothing beats mock coding interviews.
                        I still remember my first coding interview
[...]
a few years back with another company
. I was so nervous, and shaking
...
, and sweating... needless to say, I failed it. It's come a long way since then.
Believe it or not, this time I wasn't even nervous when the day came. It was just another regular day with a set of programming interview questions to answer. Nothing fancy.
I ended up with offers from both Google & Microsoft, it was a hard choice, but I'm now happily working for Google and learning a ton from some of the smartest and nicest people in tech.
Read More
Ricardo Canales
offers from:
Facebook
Microsoft
Practicing with Pramp gave me the confidence I needed to have a fun coding interview and eventually get the offers I wanted
...
.
Peer-to-peer interviewing with other programmers helped me obtain a wider perspective and understand what aspects I needed to improve.
While faced with what could possibly be a frustrating round of coding interviews, the only way to gain the experience I needed was by practicing real coding interviews.
Pramp was great for this.
Read More
Sherzat Aitbayev
offers from:
Amazon
Google
Twitter
Pramp helped me to get an amazing hands-on technical interview experience.
[...]
After some preparation, I decided to test my skills in algorithms and data structures, so I scheduled a couple of Pramp interviews.
The experience with Pramp felt like an actual online coding interview with a company
...
, I learned from having someone listen my explanations while I was solving the problems and it gave me the insight on some of the common mistakes I was making.
                        Another thing that I liked is the fact that I also could be an interviewer, which helped me understand what interviewers are looking for in potential candidates and how I can make my coding interview easier and more efficient.
Read More
How Exponent Practice Works
1
Get Paired
Tell us when and what you want to practice and we’ll pair you with an optimal peer. We provide interview questions and a collaborative environment for you to conduct the interview.
2
Practice
Interviews are conducted using a collaborative environment over video. You and your peer will interview each other for 30-45 minutes. After the interview, you’ll each provide feedback on to help each other improve.
3
Ace It
Learn from peers’ feedback, gain confidence and master the art of interviewing. Keep practicing until you interview like a rock star. Impress recruiters and land awesome job offers.
Start Practicing!
Stop preparing alone
Get Real
Interview Practice
Acing job interviews requires many skills: problem-solving, communication, product sensibility, and strong technical aptitude. There's one certain way to get dramatically better:
Practicing Live Interviews
.
Exponent Practice aims to provide the complete tech interview practice you need, for free. Hone your interviewing skills, learn from your peers, and become comfortable performing under pressure within an interview setting.
Personal Peer Matching
Each practice peer is picked especially for you, based on availability, experience, education, practice topics, and target companies.
Full Interview Questions
Full questions, answers and specific interviewing tips enable both you and your peer to interview each other like pros.
Interactive 1-on-1 Practice
Practice job interviews anytime right from your browser with a real-time collaborative environment and HD video chat.
© Exponent Labs, LLC.
Contact us at:
[email protected]
Practice with friends
WORK WITH US
Join us on