←
All Roadmaps
Weekly Newsletter
Download
System Design Roadmap
Everything you need to know about designing large-scale systems in 2026
Roadmap
AI Tutor
AI
Personalize
0
% Done
Login to track your progress
Track Progress
What is System Design?
System design involves creating a detailed blueprint of a system's architecture, components, modules, interfaces, and data to fulfill specific requirements. It includes outlining a structured plan for building, implementing, and maintaining the system, ensuring it meets functional, technical, and business needs. This process addresses considerations of scalability, performance, security, and usability, aiming to develop an efficient and effective solution.
Frequently Asked Questions
What are the components of System Design?
Some of the major components that play a crucial role in designing a system include Programming language choice, Databases, CDNs, Load Balancers, Caches, Proxies, Queues, Web Servers, Application Servers, Search Engines, Logging and Monitoring Systems, Scaling, and more. Key considerations include scalability, architectural patterns, and security measures to safeguard the system. These elements collectively contribute to building a robust, efficient, and secure system, though this list represents just a subset of the comprehensive factors involved in system design.
Join the Community
roadmap.sh is the
6th most starred project on GitHub
and is visited by hundreds of thousands of developers every month.
Rank
6th
out of 28M!
351K
GitHub Stars
Star us on GitHub
Help us reach #1
+90k
every month
+2.8M
Registered Users
Register yourself
Commit to your growth
+2k
every month
45K
Discord Members
Join on Discord
Join the community
Roadmaps
Guides
FAQs
YouTube
roadmap.sh
by
@kamrify
@kamrify
Community created roadmaps, best practices, projects, articles, resources and journeys to help you choose your path and grow in your career.
© roadmap.sh
·
Terms
·
Privacy
·
The top DevOps resource for Kubernetes, cloud-native computing, and large-scale development and deployment.
DevOps
·
Kubernetes
·
Cloud-Native
Cookie Settings